Add devrel section to the docs (#1124)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/19-kubernetes-knowlege-hub/00-how-to/06-deploy-stateless-frontend-app.md

icon: ""
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
hideToCSidebar: false
hiddenFromNav: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# How To Deploy a Stateless Frontend App with Kubernetes

## Introduction

Kubernetes is a container orchestration platform that is widely used for deploying and managing containerized applications. 

One of the key benefits of using Kubernetes is that it provides a consistent and reliable way to deploy applications across different environments, including on-premises data centers and cloud infrastructure. 

Deploying a stateless frontend application with Kubernetes can be a straightforward process, although it requires an understanding of the key concepts and best practices of Kubernetes. 

In this tutorial, you will containerize a date suggester app built in React and deploy it with Kubernetes. This application is bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/). 

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Requirements
```

> - An installation of [Node.js and NPM](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) on your machine. Node is a Javascript runtime environment and will enable React to run on your machine.

Author: Here, Javascript is a noun. Its spelling is correct.

- A Docker account and a [Docker installation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/) on your machine.
- A running Kubernetes cluster. You can create one on [Spectro Cloud’s Palette](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/getting-started/#deployingyourfirstcluster) or [use other methods to create a cluster](https://www.notion.so/How-To-Create-a-Kubernetes-Cluster-bf707518b6bf4a918d8b11a570eabed6).
- An installation of the [kubectl command-line tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/) on your machine and connected to your cluster.

## About the Application

The date suggester app is written in React. It takes a single date input on when a user will like to go on a date and displays a date idea for the selected date.

The app data comes from a JSON file that lives on the frontend app. 

## Clone the Application.

Use the command shown below to clone the application from GitHub.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Princesso/date-buddy.git
```

If you prefer to use a different stateless frontend app, you can do so. You may, however, get different results than in this tutorial. This tutorial only serves as a guide.

> ## Create a Dockerfile on the App’s Root Directory.

Reviewer: Yup, it's correct, marking resolved.

```bash
kubectl create deploy date-suggestions --image=date-suggestions --replicas=2 --port=3000 --dry-run=client -o yaml
```

The output of running the command above is a YAML representation of the deployment, likely similar to the lines below:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: date-suggestions
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: date-suggestions
  replicas: 2
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: date-suggestions
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: date-suggestions
          image: date-suggestions
          ports:
            - containerPort: 3000
```

 
modify the command to create the deployment, to add a command to pipe the output into a `deployment.yaml` file.

```bash
kubectl create deploy date-suggestions --image=date-suggestions --replicas=2 --port=3000 --dry-run=client -o yaml > deployment.yaml

```

Alternatively, you can use the `touch` command to create the `deployment.yaml` file, and then copy the YAML output from the command to create a deployment to it.

```bash
touch deployment.yaml
```

## Create a Kubernetes Service.

> Create and populate a Kubernetes Service file in the app's root directory. As the default, your application will only be accessible within the cluster. You'll need to create a Kubernetes service resource to expose it to the outside world. A service resource creates an abstraction over a set of pods that provides discovery and routing between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create and populate a Kubernetes Service file in the app's root directory. By default, your application will only be accessible within the cluster. You'll need to create a Kubernetes service resource to expose the application to resources outside the Kubernetes cluster. A service resource creates an abstraction over a set of pods that provides discovery and routing between them.
```
Outside world is a bit vague. Let's help the reader by being specific and stating outside of the cluster.

> To create a service, use the `kubectl expose` command as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a service, use the `kubectl expose` command as shown below:
```

```bash
kubectl expose deployment date-suggestions --type=LoadBalancer --port=80 --target-port=3000 --name=date-suggestion-service --dry-run=client -o yaml
```

The output of running the command will be similar to the YAML below:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: date-suggestions-service
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  selector:
    app: date-suggestions
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 3000
```

> If everything looks good, modify the command to expose the deployment, to add a command to add the output to a file `service.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything looks good, modify the command to redirect the output YAML to the file **service.yaml**.
```
Similar to earlier, I think you want the redirect operator. I also shortened the sentence to make it easier to read.

```bash
kubectl expose deployment date-suggestions --type=LoadBalancer --port=80 --target-port=3000 --name=date-suggestion-service --dry-run=client -o yaml > service.yaml
```

You can also create a YAML file with the `touch` command and add the output of the `kubectl expose` command to it.

```bash
touch service.yaml
```

Copy and paste the following line of code to the service file.

## Deploy the Application.

Use the `Kubectl` command line connected to the cluster you created earlier, deploy the application by applying the file's content to Kubernetes.

```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml -f service.yaml
```

## Confirm that deployment was successful.

> Once the deployment and service files have been applied, you should be able to access your app by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the deployment and service files have been applied, you should be able to access your app by issuing the following command:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: While this is helpful, it could be confusing for newer users. A more user-friendly approach is to provide the user with a command that gives them exactly what they are looking for. Below is the command I would have provided the user.

```
kubectl get service date-suggestions-service --output=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}'

```

kubectl get service
```

> This will show you the URL where your app runs, and you can access it in a web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will display the URL of your app that you can use to can access it in a web browser.
```

> # Next Steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Next Steps
```

> In conclusion, deploying a stateless frontend application with Kubernetes can be a straightforward process if you understand the fundamental concepts of Kubernetes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying a stateless frontend application with Kubernetes can be a straightforward process if you understand the fundamental concepts of Kubernetes. 
```
Taking our "in conclusion" as it's not necessary.
